[music]
Hi, this is Christian for Wing Server.
Axis recently released a new Surge front
wing and after my first session on the
Sur A90, I knew right away this was
going to be one of my favorite foils.
Axis designed it to sit right between
the Spitfire and the RV2.
And honestly, you can feel that
immediately on the water. It fits
perfectly in that gap while still
bringing some unique characteristics of
its own. Even though it's not my
favorite foil, I'll definitely continue
using the others as well since
conditions are never the same. In this
comparison video, I'll explain why I
think the Surge really excels and why I
choose the other foils instead. Where
the Axis Surge shines, it's a great ray
foil with a lively feel, but on fast
waking brace where snappy turns are
limited, I'd go with the RV V2.
The foil is very forgiving and stable
when you want it to be. You can
continuously adjust your line and foil
angle without stalling even in messy
water. Uh because it's so forgiving, the
foil really shines when you push it in
hard turns using the energy from wave
bumps and swell. You can throw and kick
this foil around and truly get the most
out of it. The foil isn't as fast as the
RV2,
but it offers a similar glide. Once upon
foil, uh, it can ride at lower speeds in
the same size. [snorts]
Slower and faster are relatively here.
We're talking about small differences in
average top speed. The pop for jumping
feels excellent for the Serge A90.
Spitfire, the power buildup when
dropping onto a steep wave can sometimes
feel like too much. [snorts] I
experienced a similar sensation with the
search. Uh, with the Spitfire, choosing
the correct size solved this issue. I do
still need to test the larger shirt
front wings, but I expect it will be
similar.
I had to position the search slightly f
far f far further forward in the board
tracks compared to the art and spitfire.
When to choose the art version two? The
Art can keep up with fast moving waves
and still allows for fairly tight turns
compared to the Spitfire and Search.
However, it feels a bit less snappy.
[snorts] It really excels at riding
swell, but it also feels good when
staying in the pocket of fast breaking
waves. Uh, for me, the 879 size is the
standout. On smaller days though, I'd
switch back to the R939 or even the 999
as they glide better at lower speeds. If
you're an active rider, um the S i890
also works in these conditions, but you
need to stay engaged and throw the foil
around to keep it alive
because you can generate a lot of speed
with the art, especially the 879. It's a
great foil for jumping. This A9 999,
this 999 feels a bit slower compared to
the V1. And with the V2s, you generally
want to size down by one to go as fast.
When to choose the Spitfire? The larger
Spitfire front wings, 900 and larger,
have always impressed me with how easy
they are to get up foil. Uh they do feel
slower, but that also makes them
excellent for riders who are new to
foiling.
On a wave, the Spitfire has great
turning ability. Um, however, because it
has less glide than the Surge, I would
now choose the Surge over the Spitfire.
[snorts] The Surge A90 feels more
forgiving than a Spitfire 780. Um, I
would still choose the Spitfire though
in overhead powerful waves where you
don't need as much glide. In these
conditions, choosing the right size is
critical. go too big and you'll just be
spit out. For me, the Spitfire 780 is
perfect. When the waves are fast and I
can't keep up with them on a Spitfire, I
choose an Art V2 where the Fireball
fires.
This actually has never been my favorite
foil in the smaller sizes, mainly
because my local conditions don't really
suit them. However, the larger Fireball
1250 has been an amazing favorite light
wind downwind powering foil for me.
Where I ride, there's usually a lot of
water movement when the wind is on. In
those conditions, uh very high aspect
foils don't seem to lock in as well when
going upwind while wing foiling. They
then tend to small more quickly. The
Fireball really excels in glide and gets
up on foil very at very low speeds. It's
ideal for downwinders or calm water
sessions where you can bump right
endlessly. [snorts] Uh this film
drinking does turn, but it prefers
smooth drawn out turns rather than
snappy ones. With a smaller size like
the 880, I had to move the mast further
back in the board tracks. uh where the
Firebolt 1250 sits in a similar position
to that of the RV2 and the Spitfire.
Then there is something we like to call
the foil journey. Most of the foils
mentioned here aren't where you actually
learn to foil on. Uh for some riders, uh
Spitfire 1180 1180 could be a good
starting point depending on your weight
and where you're learning. Uh but for
most uh you start with a SES or one of
the large BC wings. Um these are great
options to learn to foil with with these
work really well from intermediate all
the way to expert level. That said,
everyone's foil journey is different.
We're all different riders. We foil on
different conditions. So it's impossible
to lay out one single pot that works for
everyone. That's also why as a beginner
the axis range can look huge and pretty
confusing. With this breakdown, I hope I
can help guide you in the right
direction on your forward journey with
these axis front wings. If you need
advice, just drop a comment, send a
message, or give me a call. I'm always
happy to help because it's not always
easy to figure out this stuff. Thank you
for watching.